---
layout: post
title:  "Depth Estimation - An Introduction"
date:   2021-09-07 15:14:18 +0900
categories: [related paper]
---

## Introduction
Depth estimation or extraction refers to the set of techniques and algorithms aiming to obtain a representation of the spatial structure of a scene. In other terms, to obtain a measure of the distance of, ideally, each point of the scene. 

## The 3D Scene: Elements and Transformations
We will call "3D scene" to the set of objects placed in a three dimensional space. A scene, however, is always seen from a specific point. The distorted image that is perceived in that point is the so-called projection of the scene. This projection is formed by the set of rays crossing a limited aperture arriving to the so-called projection plane. 

This projection presents some relevant characteristics:
* The most evident consequence of a projection is the loss of one dimension. Since in each pixel only one point of the real scene is projected, the depth information is mathematically erased during the projection process into the image plane. However, some algorithms can retrieve this information from the 2D images, as we will see.
* On the contrary, the projection of a scene presents important advantages, such  simple sampling by already well developed devices (the so-called image sensors). Moreover, dealing with 2D images is, by obvious reasons, much simpler than managing 3D sets of data, reducing computation load.

Thus, the scene is transformed into a 2D set of points, which can be described in a Cartesian plane. The 3D vision processes have as goal the reconstruction of this lost information, and thus, the distances from each projected point to the image plane. The reconstruction, also called depth map estimation, has to face some 
